So now that we saw the real time functionality of Firebase in action and now that we saw how we can
connect our flutter app with help of the Firebase SDK to firebase the service, which just to make this
clear again, is totally decoupled from flutter.
It works with Web apps, with native Android apps.
It works with a bunch of other apps as well.
But we can also use it with Flutter through that SDK.
So now that we made this to work, let's take a step back.
We don't need to chat screen right now.
We need the off screen instead because we want to build an application where users have to authenticate
before they can chat.
So let's go to the off screen dart file and let's create a new widget in there.
And that should be a state full widget now.
So make sure you create that stateful widget class here and the state class that belongs to it.
And here I'm using the shortcut where I can type stuff in visuals to decode.
And then I get this suggestion.
And by clicking tab or by hitting tap, this is generated and you're all named as off screen.
And you see it enters this in all the relevant places.
And I will also import material material that dart from the flutter package.
And now here I want to render my well, guess what, my off screen.
For that.
Here, instead of rendering a container, all render a scaffold because I want to have a nice background
and so on, and I will set the background color of this page, not to the default to this grayish white
look, but instead I want to use my primary color here and with theme of context, primary color.
We get access to that as you learn from the course.
Now for the body off the scaffold here, of course, I want you to display some form.
So in the end, a forum where the user can enter the email, the password and the user name, and later
also take an image.
That's the goal here.
For that forum, I'll use the center widget to have a well centered widget and the child of that center
widget could be a card, and that's another widget that comes with flutter.
And on the card, I'll set the margin on the card constructor here to EDG INSETs, all 20 to have a
little bit of margin around the cards, a little bit of empty space and the child of the card.
So the content inside of the card should be a single child scroll view, a single child, scroll views
so that we can scroll if the form elements should take up too much space so that we never have a situation
where one of the elements is unreachable and inside of that single child scroll view.
On the other hand, I want to have some padding, so I'll use the padding widget here and set the padding
to etch INSETs all 16.
And these are just some values that I picked in advance that should look nice.
Of course, you can use different values here and play around with different values.
I'll take 16 as a padding here and then a child of the padding widget here is the actual form widget,
which will soon include all the form fields.
Now I'll just restructure this to make this a bit easier to read.
And this is the widget tree we have thus far.
Now, I can already tell that this form will be a bit longer.
We'll have multiple form elements in there and therefore I'll do one thing.
I'll actually grab this entire center widget here and cut it.
And then the widgets folder, I'll add a new folder.
And in that new all folder I will add my auth.
For him, the dart file, so did I basically outsourced is off for him into a separate widget just to
make each widget on its own a little bit more manageable and a little bit smaller.
Now, the off form widget will also managed a different input states of the user and therefore does
actually also will be stateful widget.
For example, we will need to be able to switch between, log in and sign up mode and update DUI respectively.
So we need to manage some state in here.
Hence does this the off form and we need to import material to start from clutter again.
And here, instead of returning a container, I will return my center, which is so the content I just
cut from the off screen and therefore here in the off screen file as a body, I can render this off
form.
Now again, I just split this into two widgets to make each widget a bit more manageable.
Will, of course, also add some logic to have those widgets communicate with each other.
So make sure you add this import to the off form dard file and let's go back to the forum and work on
that form.
Now, the form itself will have a couple of children.
Of course, it can only have one child, but this child can be a column.
And now we are able to define a couple of children, which are all part of that form.
Now, I want to make sure that this column actually takes only as little space as it needs so that it
doesn't take all available space, but that it basically just takes the space its children need.
So I'll set the main axis size of this column widget to main exercise dot min.
This makes sure that the column does not take as much as possible, but only as much as needed.
Now to define how much space is needed and to have all the inputs we need in the children here in this
list inside of the column, I now want to render all the text form fields we need.
So here we can add the first text from field for, let's say, our email.
And a second text for him field thereafter for the username and a third text form field for the password,
that will not always need all of them, but that will generally be the fields we need.
Of course, will also add image upload later, though.
Now, let's start with that first text worm field here.
We want to take the email address of the user, so I'll set the keyboard type here to text input type
dot, email type dot, email address so that we present the right keyboard.
We can also set the declaration of this text form field, because as you'll learn in discourse with
the declaration configuration here, you are able to set the label.
For example, declaration takes an object of type input declaration, hence will use this constructor
to create such an object.
And there we can now set the label text to email address.
And if we want also the label style, for example, to be bold.
I'll not do that here though.
But of course you could.
And in general you can, of course, style this entirely in the way you want.
This year is the first text from field, it's missing a bunch of things, of course, and will soon
add more logic, but this is the base configuration, the minimal configuration of one.
Now on the next text from field in line here, I want to get the username so there for a year.
I'm fine with the default keyboard's type.
We don't need to set a different type, but I want to set a decoration so that we can actually set the
label.
So here the label text is username to make it clear which kind of input we're expecting here.
And then the third text worm field also takes a declaration where we can set the label text to password
and now important since this is a password, I also want to make sure that the input of the user is
hidden.
And we can do that by setting the obscure text configuration or argument on the text form field constructor
to true.
And this will highlight the text entered by the user.
Now, below all these text from fields, I'll add a SIST box, which is a box that we can use to insert
some space and I'll set the height here to 12.
I'm doing this because below that I want to add a race button, which in the end allows the user to
submit this form.
So the child of this button is a text widget where we can simply say log in, though we will also set
this text dynamically soon.
We also should add on prest here to define the function that should execute when the button is pressed
and right now does, it's just an empty dummy function because we don't have the final logic yet.
And with that, I'm done with this button right below it.
I will also add a flat button.
This should be the button we use for switching between log in and sign up mode.
So here the child is actually a text where I say, for example, create new account.
This text will also soon be set dynamically.
And I want to also add on prest here and do nothing at the moment.
OK, cool.
So that's the basic off for him, which does nothing but which we should be able to see.
So let's go to the main dart file and instead of the chat screen here on home, let's load the off screen
and make sure you therefore also add the import to the off screen here.
We can also keep the chat screen import because we will need that later again, if you now safe everything,
you should see that log in screen here and that doesn't look too shabby.
But I want to use different colors here.
So let's work on the theming in the next lecture.